# Hand-Gesture-Recognition-with-Glove-Functionality-Project
There are times when we cannot physically interact with objects or systems conveniently with the use of our hands. This may be due to the nature of a task with it being deemed as being too high risk in areas such as surgery or hospitality due to contamination (Lai, Ke and Hsu, 2018). This makes it difficult to comfortably train people in these professions without eliminating this element of risk. Other high risk areas where human-interaction recognition is implemented is Bomb disposal, where a robot performs a task based on hand movements made by the human (K. Ray et al., 2018). Many systems in the area of Virtual reality require the user to wear ‘data gloves’ equipped with specialist sensors which can prove costly and inconvenient.

Gloves can come in a range of different designs and colours and can have an effect on the computer’s ability to determine what gesture is being displayed. Our proposed solution is a system that is able to classify a range of different hand gestures with high confidence and accuracy. What makes our proposed solution different is that it will also aim to address existing problems where the wearing of gloves can affect accuracy of classification and so our system will be able to function by detecting gestures from both those with and without gloves.

The development of this system offers the opportunity for this to be expanded upon and implemented in a scenario where computer-based activities can be completed without the use of a physical controller and without the need to remove any gloves if that is the case. For example, in one study (Haria et al., 2017), a hand gesture recognition system was implemented which translated gestures into actions which could open applications such as VLC media player and access certain websites.
